Install AC with Docker Compose (#303)
astronomer/docs: ac/next/install-docker.md

---
title: "Install Apache Airflow on Docker"
navtitle: "Install on Docker"

> description: "A complete setup for getting Airflow running on Docker using Astronomer Core."

Author: "Start" doesn't seem as accurate as "install" here, as you could "start Airflow" using methods and commands not described here. I'd prefer "Run" if it's between the two. 

Can you explain the SEO thing?

This guide explains how to run Airflow on Docker with an Astronomer Core Docker image. You'll create a local project directory, pull an Astronomer Core image, set up Docker Compose, and spin up your environment.

## Prerequisites

To install Apache Airflow on Docker, you need:

- [curl](https://curl.se/download.html)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

> **Note:** Docker Compose is pre-installed on Docker for Mac and Windows, but not for Linux. If you're running on Linux, make sure to [install Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) separately.

## Installation

To install and run the Astronomer Core distribution of Apache Airflow:

1. Create new directory for your Airflow project and `cd` into it:

    ```sh
    mkdir astronomer-core && cd astronomer-core
    ```

2. Run the following command to initialize some of the key files you'll need to run Astronomer Core:

    ```sh
    touch .env packages.txt requirements.txt Dockerfile dags
    ```

>     Docker references these files whenever your image is built:

Author: What about "containerize" vs "bundle"?

    - `.env` stores Airflow environment variables.

>     - `packages.txt` stores Python-level dependencies.
>     - `requirements.txt` stores OS-level dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `packages.txt` stores OS-level dependencies.
    - `requirements.txt` stores Python-level dependencies.
```

@jwitz Just double checked our "Customize your Airflow Image" doc, and I think these are actually flipped: https://www.astronomer.io/docs/cloud/stable/develop/customize-image

>     - `Dockerfile` pulls the Astronomer Core image from a Docker Registry.

Author: Changed the suggestion a bit, but overall agree

    - `dags` stores your Airflow DAGs.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Extra space

3. Add the following to your `Dockerfile` to pull the latest Astronomer Core Docker image:

    ```
    # For a Debian-based image
    FROM quay.io/astronomer/docker-airflow:latest-onbuild
    ```

>     When you spin up your Airflow environment, this file pulls the corresponding Astronomer Core `on-build` image ([source code](https://github.com/astronomer/ap-airflow/blob/master/2.0.0/buster/Dockerfile)). To specify a particular version of Apache Airflow and Astronomer Core, replace `latest` with the tag for your desired version. For a list of all image tags available, refer to [Astronomer on Quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/ap-airflow?tab=tags).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When you create the Docker containers to run Airflow, this file pulls the latest Astronomer Core `onbuild` image ([source code](https://github.com/astronomer/ap-airflow/)) and creates a Docker image based on the logic within it. To specify a particular version of Apache Airflow and Astronomer Core, replace `latest` with the tag for your desired version. For a list of all image tags available, refer to [Astronomer on Quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/ap-airflow?tab=tags).
```

Know I linked 2.0.0 Dockerfile before, but I suppose we don't wanna keep maintaining this so might just have to link to repo

> 4. In your project folder, run one of the following commands to download a default `docker-compose.yaml` file based on the database and Airflow Executor you want to use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In your project folder, run one of the following commands to download a `docker-compose.yaml` file based on the database and Airflow Executor you want to use:
```

    | Configuration | Command |
    |---------------|---------|
    | MySQL/ Celery Executor |`curl -LfO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astronomer/docker-airflow/main/docker-compose-mysql-celery.yaml`|
    | MySQL/ Local Executor |`curl -LfO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astronomer/docker-airflow/main/docker-compose-mysql-local.yaml`|
    | Postgres/ Local Executor |`curl -lfO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astronomer/docker-airflow/main/docker-compose-postgres-celery.yaml`|
    | Postgres/ Celery Executor |`curl -LfO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astronomer/docker-airflow/main/docker-compose-postgres-local.yaml` |

>     This `docker-compose.yaml` file defines the a few things beyond the Executor and database you selected:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Beyond the Executor and database you selected, this `docker-compose.yaml` file defines:
```

>     - Airflow environment variables required for starting the environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - System-level environment variables required to start the environment
```

Author: Why do we not want to say Airflow here?

>     - A default Admin Airflow user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - A default `Admin` Airflow user
```

    - Containers for the Airflow Scheduler, Webserver, and Metadata DB services

>     - Containers for Celery workers, Redis, and Flower (Celery Executor only)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Containers for Celery Workers, Redis, and Flower (Celery Executor only)
```

Think we're going back and forth here on capitalizing `Workers` - should standardize 👀  (I can be convinced either way)

Author: It's not capitalized in the Celery docs, so let's defer to them on that!

>     - Airflow commands, such as `airflow upgrade db`, which run every time you restart your environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Airflow commands required to start your environment (e.g. `airflow upgrade db`)
```

Author: Changed "e.g." to "for example", per this style note that I think is useful for us to incorporate: https://developers.google.com/style/abbreviations?hl=en

    - Volumes for Airflow DAGs and logs

>     If you want to change a default configuration, such as your Webserver port or Airflow home directory, make sure to first update this file and restart your Airflow environment. Similarly, to configure Airflow [environment variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html), add the variables to your `.env` file and restart your Airflow environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you want to change a default configuration, such as your Webserver port or Airflow home directory, make sure to first update this file and restart your Airflow environment. To configure Airflow [environment variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html), add the variables to your `.env` file and restart your Airflow environment.
```

Reviewer: Did we wanna add a note here about adding `.env` to `.gitignore`?

Author: We should probably include that information in the eventual doc we write about setting environment variables. Since we aren't asking them to define any secret values yet, I don't think we need to include it here.

5. Run `docker-compose up` to create isolated Docker containers for the Airflow Scheduler, Webserver, and Metadata DB. If you're running the Celery Executor, this command creates one container for each Celery worker.

> 6. To confirm that the installation was successful, open `localhost:8080` in a web browser. When prompted to log in, enter `admin` for both the username and password. If your setup was successful, you should see the Airflow home:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. To confirm that the installation was successful, open `localhost:8080` in a web browser to access the Airflow UI. When prompted to log in, enter `admin` for both the username and password. If your setup was successful, you should see the Airflow home:
```

    ![Airflow home page](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/airflow-ui/ac-install.png)

    To confirm that all Airflow components are running successfully, you can also run the following command:

    ```sh
    docker ps
    ```

>     If your installation was successful, you should see a container for each Airflow service specified in your `docker-compose` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Here, you should see a container for each Airflow service specified in your `docker-compose` file:
```

"successful" thing felt redundant w/ above?

---
title: "Install Apache Airflow on Docker"
navtitle: "Install on Docker"
description: "A complete setup for getting Airflow running on Docker using Astronomer Core."
---

## Overview

Running Airflow in Docker containers is a simple and effective way to manage and scale your project. The core Airflow components — the Webserver, Scheduler, and Workers — are each run in separate containers, meaning you can easily scale resource usage based on the computing requirements of your project.

> This guide contains all of the necessary setup to get Airflow running on Docker. You'll create a local project directory, pull an Astronomer Core image and `docker-compose` file, and spin up your environment.

Reviewer: "all of the necessary setup" sounds weird 2 me?

Author: Lol yeah, like what would the alternative be? Not having all the necessary setup? Updated this to be more simple/ straightforward.

> This guide contains all of the necessary setup to get Airflow running on Docker. You'll create a local project directory, pull an Astronomer Core image and `docker-compose` file, and spin up your environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide contains all of the necessary setup to get Airflow running on [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) with an Astronomer Core Docker image. You'll create a local project directory, pull an Astronomer Core image, configure a `docker-compose.yaml` file, and spin up your environment.
```

Reviewer: The "Overview of Docker Compose" on Docker's docs provides a lot of great info on "why use Docker Compose" - I've heard from a decent amount of "Docker noobs" who want to start running Airflow and are unsure why they should use it. Should we consider adding a brief section that delineates the benefits of this method?

Author: Do you mean whether noobs would want to use Docker or Docker Compose? I tried to add more benefits of using Docker Compose to the first paragraph. I'm not sure it's right to say it's running "on Docker Compose". Docker is the platform, while Docker Compose is the tool right?

## Prerequisites

To install Apache Airflow on Docker, you need:

- [curl](https://curl.se/download.html)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

## Installation

To install and run the Astronomer Core distribution of Apache Airflow:

1. Create new project directory for your Airflow project and `cd` into it:

    ```sh
    mkdir astronomer-core && cd astronomer-core
    ```

2. Run the following command to initialize some of the key files you'll need to run Astronomer Core:

    ```sh

>     touch .env packages.txt requirements.txt Dockerfile

Reviewer: Do we expect to touch on what these files are in another reference doc? Nervous to ignore it completely

Author: Good call, I realize now that these are not standard files for all Docker images. I'll include some notes about each one.

Author: Follow-up Q that I just asked about in #astro-cli : the .env file seems to only be referenced as an Astro CLI-specific thing in our [other docs](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/cloud/stable/deploy/environment-variables), wondering if we can still suggest using it with the Docker CLI alone. If not, we might have to update these suggestions and commit to getting more local functionality into the Docker CLI.

    ```

3. Add the the following to the `Dockerfile` to grab the latest Astronomer Core image on build:

    ```
    # For a Debian-based image

>     FROM quay.io/astronomer/docker-airflow:latest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    FROM quay.io/astronomer/docker-airflow:latest-onbuild
```

    ```

>     To pull from a specific version, replace `latest` in the image tag with the tag for your desired version. For a list of all image tags, refer to the [quay.io repository](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/ap-airflow?tab=tags).  

Author: Reworded this slightly. Not sure whether we should link to source code, or link to the Image Architecture doc which *should* include source code. Could go either way with it, really.

> 4. In your project folder, run one of the following commands to download a default `docker-compose` file based on the database and Airflow Executor you want to use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In your project folder, run one of the following commands to download a default `docker-compose.yaml` file based on the database and Airflow Executor you want to use:
```

    | Configuration | Command |
    |---------------|---------|
    | MySQL/ Celery Executor |`curl -LfO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astronomer/docker-airflow/main/docker-compose-mysql-celery.yaml`|
    | MySQL/ Local Executor |`curl -LfO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astronomer/docker-airflow/main/docker-compose-mysql-local.yaml`|
    | Postgres/ Celery Executor |`curl -lfO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astronomer/docker-airflow/main/docker-compose-postgres-celery.yaml`|
    | Postgres/ Celery Executor |`curl -LfO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astronomer/docker-airflow/main/docker-compose-postgres-local.yaml` |

>     Your `docker-compose` file contains all of the connections and commands needed to start Airflow for the first time. Additionally, the `x-airflow-env` object is where you configure Airflow's environment variables. If you want to change a default configuration, such as your Webserver port or your Airflow home directory, you need to first update this file and restart your Airflow environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This `docker-compose` file defines the services needed to start Airflow according to the Executor and database you selected. If you want to change a default configuration, such as your Webserver port or Airflow home directory, make sure to first update this file and restart your Airflow environment. To modify the pre-defined [environment variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html), for example, refer to the `x-airflow-env` object.
```

>     Your `docker-compose` file contains all of the connections and commands needed to start Airflow for the first time. Additionally, the `x-airflow-env` object is where you configure Airflow's environment variables. If you want to change a default configuration, such as your Webserver port or your Airflow home directory, you need to first update this file and restart your Airflow environment.

Author: Do you mean for configurations that are currently in the image, or configurations that could be added to it? In the former case, that's probably good content for the image architecture doc. In the latter case, it would be a separate doc or a link out to Docker documentation.

Also realizing now that you can set env variables in both `.env` and in `docker-compose` 😟 we should get clarity on that.

> 5. Run `docker-compose up` to spin up the local Airflow Scheduler, Webserver, and Metadata DB containers, as well as create some key objects for running Airflow. The default user created will have `admin/admin` as a username and password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Run `docker-compose up` to create isolated Docker containers for the Airflow Scheduler, Webserver, and Metadata DB. If you're running the Celery Executor, one container per Celery Worker will also be created. The default user created will have `admin/admin` as a username and password.
```

Where does this "default user" come in? Have readers gone to localhost:8080 to log in yet? Maybe bring it down to Step 6?

Author: Default user is created in the `docker-compose:`

```
      command: 
        bash -c "airflow users  create --role Admin --username admin --email admin
        --firstname admin --lastname admin --password admin && airflow sync-perm && airflow webserver"
```

>     By default, this command will run Airflow on your machine based on your `docker-compose` file. Containers for your Airflow Metadata Database, Airflow Webserver and Airflow Scheduler are spun up programmatically.

Reviewer: Kinda feels redundant - might delete?

> 6. To confirm the installation was successful, open `localhost:8080` in a web browser and log in as your default `admin`. If your setup was successful, you should see the Airflow home:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. To confirm the installation was successful, open `https://localhost:8080` in a web browser to access the Airflow UI. When prompted to log in, enter `admin` for both the username and password. If your setup was successful, you should see the Airflow home:
```

    ![Airflow home page](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/airflow-ui/ac-install.png)

>     You can also confirm that all Airflow components are running with the following Docker CLI command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To confirm that all Airflow components are running successfully, you can also run the following:
```

    ```sh
    docker ps
    ```

    If your installation was successful, you should see a container for each Airflow service specified in your `docker-compose` file:

    ```
    CONTAINER ID   IMAGE                             COMMAND                  CREATED          STATUS          PORTS                                        NAMES
45dfd2f532fe   astronomer-core_569586/airflow:latest   "tini -- /entrypoint…"   13 seconds ago   Up 11 seconds   5555/tcp, 8793/tcp, 0.0.0.0:8080->8080/tcp   airflow2569586_webserver_1
4fd455a109f8   astronomer-core_569586/airflow:latest   "tini -- /entrypoint…"   14 seconds ago   Up 12 seconds   5555/tcp, 8080/tcp, 8793/tcp                 airflow2569586_scheduler_1
df802bb4c2ed   postgres:12.2                     "docker-entrypoint.s…"   3 weeks ago      Up 13 seconds   0.0.0.0:5432->5432/tcp                       airflow2569586_postgres_1
user@LocalMachine astronomer-core %
    ```

## Next Steps

> This guide provided the minimum setup necessary to get Airflow running on Docker at scale. From here, you'll want to complete the following additional setup to make the most of Airflow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide provided the minimum setup necessary to get Airflow running on Docker. From here, you'll want to complete the following additional setup to make the most of Airflow:
```

I might shy away from promoting the "at scale" situation 😅
